Humanities (A) 
Part 1: Setting Up Your Environment (Weeks 1 & 2)
Getting Started
In this course, we are going to learn some basic programming concepts, and how the 
Python programming language is used in a typical machine learning pipeline.
In a typical computer science programme, you would learn how to write computer 
programs (also known as code) in one course, and learn about AI models in another
course. In contrast, we are taking a shortcut, to focus on how to read code instead of 
how to write programs/code, and, to develop skills in communicating about code (for 
example, to the technical team in your group or to the public). In particular, you are
expected to reflect on how you can present code to engage a broader arts and 
humanities audience in your interpretation and perspective on the code. This will help
us reflect more deeply on the human-centric social and cultural implications of AI as 
AI starts with a computer program.
Your objective: to not freak out when you see code and to help other to not freak out 
when they see code!
What is code?
Before we talk about code, we need to talk about two related concepts: algorithms and 
pseudocode. You may have already come across the term “algorithm” in some of the 
news articles.1 When it is mentioned in the news, it is often a term which is used 
interchangeably with computer program. 
However, the concept of algorithm is used more generally in computer science, as a 
step-by-step procedure to solve a problem and does not necessarily have to be 
something that can be run on a computer nor does it have to be written in a 
programming language. It can be written in plain English.
Pseudocode is similar in that it does not have to be something you can run on a 
computer, nor written in any specific programming language, but generally adopts basic 
programming concepts in the procedural description to make it code-like. You will be 
exploring some of these concepts in this lab with Python. It is kind of like a “universal